# Questure-AI
This project QUESTURE AI introduces an innovative approach to developing a web model of
gesture recognition for Mathematics using the open-source libraries OpenCV,
MediaPipe,NumPy, Python Imaging Library(PIL). The proposed system leverages computer
vision techniques to accurately track and interpret finger movements captured by a camera,
enabling users to write on a canvas. This paper details the technical implementation of the
system, including the integration of OpenCV for real-time hand detection, MediaPipe for hand
landmark estimation, and NumPy for efficient data processing, PIL for opening, manipulating
different file formats. In recent times, wearable devices have emerged that are capable of
detecting and interpreting our actions through gesture recognition, which is a computing
process that utilizes mathematical algorithms to comprehend human gestures. To monitor the
movement of the fingers, computer vision is often employed. By utilizing computer vision
techniques, the AI can accurately track and analyze the movement of fingers and hands in
real-time, providing an intuitive and interactive interface for users. This innovative approach
aims to enhance the educational experience by making mathematical concepts more accessible
and engaging. The project demonstrates the potential of AI-driven gesture recognition in
educational technology, highlighting its capacity to bridge the gap between abstract
mathematical ideas and tangible learning experiences. Preliminary results indicate that the
system is effective in recognizing a wide range of mathematical gestures with high accuracy,
suggesting promising applications in classrooms, online education, and self-paced learning
environments.
Moreover, it has the potential to be an immensely useful tool for the hearing-impaired
community, as it provides an alternative method of communication that does not rely on sound.
With the aid of this technology, individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing can effectively
communicate with others, thereby enhancing their overall quality of life.
